No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

(Published 31th Janaury, 2025)
Act
No. 7 of 2025
I assent
DR. LAZARUS MCCARTHY CHAKWERA
PRESIDENT
24th January, 2025
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
SECTION

PART I__PRELIMINARY
1. Short title and commencement
2. Interpretation
3. Application of this Act
PART II__PUBLIC PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL OF PUBLIC ASSETS
AUTHORITY
4. Establishment of the Public Procurement and Disposal of
Public Assets Authority
5. Functions of the Authority
6. Powers of the Authority
7. Composition of the Authority
8. Tenure and vacancies
9. Meetings of the Authority
10. Committees of the Authority
11. Personal attendance of meetings
12. Allowances and expenses
13. Delegation of powers and functions of the Authority
PART III__ADMINISTRATION
14. Secretariat of the Authority
15. Director General of the Authority

1

2

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

SECTION

16. Functions of the Director General
17. Tenure and removal of the Director General
18. Acting Director General
19. Other staff of the Authority
PART IV__FUNDS AND PROPERTY OF THE AUTHORITY
20. Funds of the Authority
21. Levies, fees, etc;
22. Accounting and audit
23. Financial year of the Authority
PART V__RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONTROLLING OFFICERS, INTERNAL
PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL COMMITTEES, PROCUREMENT AND
DISPOSAL UNIT AND AD-HOC EVALUATION TEAMS
24. Responsibilities of a Controlling Officer
25. Establishment of Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committees
26. Composition of the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committees
27. Ad-hoc evaluation teams and boards of survey
28. Establishment of procurement and disposal units
PART VI__PRINCIPLES OF PUBLIC PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL OF
ASSETS
29. Principles of public procurement
30. Sustainable procurement and disposal
31. Principles of disposal of assets
32. Records of procurement and disposal proceedings
33. Mode of communication
34. Confidentiality
35. Limitation on contracts with employees
36. Disposal of goods to employees
37. Participation by micro, small and medium enterprises
PART VII__PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL METHODS
38. Methods of procurement and disposal
39. Two stage tendering
40. National competitive bidding
41. Restricted tendering
42. International competitive bidding

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

SECTION

43. Request for proposals
44. Requests for quotations
45. Single sourcing
46. Force account
47. Community participation
48. Reverse auction
49. Emergency procurement
50. Procurement from other procuring and disposing entities
51. Disposal of assets
52. Forward auction
53. Deviations
54. Framework agreements
PART VIII__PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL PLANNING AND PROCEEDINGS
55. Planning of procurement and disposal activities
56. Publication of invitation to bid
57. Issuance of bidding document
58. Submission of bids
59. Bid validity periods
60. Extension of deadline for submission of bids
61. Opening of bids
62. Evaluation of bids
63. Unrealistically low bids
64. Processing of unrealistically high bids
65. Use of standard bidding documents
66. Rejection of bids and cancellation of procurement and disposal
proceedings
67. Bids received after deadline for submission
68. Unqualified bids
69. Negotiations
70. Intention to award a contract
71. Use of information and communication technologies
72. Procurement contract
73. Amendment of a signed procurement contract
74. Contract management
PART IX__SUPPLIERS AND BIDDERS
75. Eligibility of criteria of bidders
76. Qualification of bidders

3

4

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

SECTION

77. Supplier database or lists
78. Conduct of bidders and suppliers
79. Debarment of suppliers and contractors
PART X__PROCUREMENT INTEGRITY
80. Conduct of public officials
81. Code of Conduct for public officials and suppliers
PART XI__ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEAL
82. Right to review
83. Review procedures
PART XII__INVENTORY CONTROL, ASSET AND STORES MANAGEMENT
AND DISTRIBUTION
84. Stores management
85. Management of procured goods
PART XIII__COMPLIANCE, MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT
86. Supply of information by procuring and disposing entity
87. Investigations and inspections
88. Appointment of inspectors
89. Powers of inspectors
90. Report of investigation and inspection
91. Powers of the Authority in investigation and inspection
PART XIV__MISCELLANEOUS
92. Oath of secrecy
93. Disclosure of interest
94. Post engagement restrictions
95. Protection from liability
96. Offences
97. Regulations
98. Repeal and savings
99. Transitional provisions

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

5

An Act to maximize economy and efficiency in public
procurement and disposal of public assets; to provide for the
establishment of the Public Procurement and Disposal of Public
Assets Authority; to provide for, and regulate, a decentralized
institutional structure for the public procurement and disposal
of public assets; to provide for inventory control, asset and stores
management and distribution; and to provide for matters
incidental thereto or connected with
ENACTED by the Parliament of Malawi as follows__
PART I__PRELIMINARY
1. This Act may be cited as the Public Procurement and Disposal
of Public Assets Act, 2024, and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by notice published in the Gazette.

Short title and
commencement

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires__
“Authority” means the Public Procurement and Disposal of
Public Assets Authority established under section 4;
“award” means the granting of a contract by a procuring and
disposing entity to a bidder for purposes of entering into a
procurement contract;

Interpretation

“bid” means__
(a) in relation to procurement proceedings, an offer to provide
goods, works and services submitted by a bidder in response to
an invitation from a procuring and disposing entity; and
(b) in relation to disposal proceedings, an offer submitted by
a bidder to acquire assets in response to an invitation from a
procuring and disposing entity;
“bidder” means__
(a) in relation to procurement proceedings, any person or
entity expressing interest in procurement proceedings by
submitting a bid; and
(b) in relation to disposal proceedings, any person or entity
expressing interest in disposal proceedings by submitting a bid;
“bidding document” means a document used by a procuring and
disposing entity for solicitation of offers, proposals or quotations;
“bid security” means a security bond required for securing
validity of a bid during the period stated in the bidding document;

6

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority;
“close relative” in relation to a member of the Authority, or a
public official, means a spouse, child, child of the spouse, sibling,
parent or guardian of the member of the Authority, or of the public
official;
“Controlling Officer” means the head or principal person in
charge of a procuring and disposing entity;
“consultant” means a person under a procurement contract to
provide consultancy services to a procuring and disposing entity;
“consultancy services” means services of an intellectual or
advisory nature;
“contractor” means a person or entity registered with a relevant
authority to perform construction works;
Cap. 7:04

“corrupt practice” has the meaning ascribed to the term by the
Corrupt Practices Act;
“Director General” means the Director General appointed under
section 15;
“disposal” means the divestiture of public assets, including
intellectual and proprietary rights and goodwill, and any other
rights of a procuring and disposing entity by any means of sale,
auction or any combination of these;
“disposal contract” means a contract between a procuring and
disposing entity and a bidder resulting from disposal proceedings;
“disposal process” means the successive stages in the disposal
cycle;
“disposal proceedings” means the whole cycle of public assets
disposal, from initiation up to acceptance of the bidder's offer;
“domestic bidder” means any bidder whose principal place of
business is within Malawi;
“donor organization” means an organization which provides, or
joins in providing, grants, credits or loans to the Government or
its agencies;
“due diligence” means the assessment of a bidder's technical,
financial and management capabilities and the bidder's governance
record to effectively execute a procurement contract;
“emergency” means a situation which poses an imminent threat
to the physical safety of a population or damage to property;
“e-procurement” means the process of procurement using
information and communication technologies;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

7

“framework agreement” means an agreement between a
procuring and disposing entity and a supplier or a contractor
through which the supplier or contractor undertakes to supply
goods, works or services on indefinite quantity basis at an agreed
unit price for an agreed period of time;
“fraudulent practice” means a misrepresentation of facts in order
to influence a procurement or disposal process or the execution of
a contract;
“goods” means objects of every kind and description, including
raw materials, products and equipment, and objects in solid, liquid
or gaseous form, and electricity, as well as services incidental to
the supply of the goods if the value of those incidental services
does not exceed the value of the goods themselves;
“highest evaluated bidder” in relation to disposal of public
assets, means a bidder ranked as first, following the application of
the specified evaluation methodology and criteria in the bidding
document;
“information” includes written, visual, oral and electronic
information;
“Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee” means a
committee established under section 25;
“local authority” has the meaning assigned to it in the Local
Government Act;

Cap. 22:01

“local enterprise” means supplier, contractor or consulting firm
registered and principally operating in Malawi and whose
shareholding is held in majority by Malawian nationals;
“lowest evaluated bidder” in relation to procurement, means a
bidder ranked as first, following the application of the specified
evaluation methodology and criteria in the bidding document;
“micro, small, and medium enterprises” means enterprises,
including their affiliates, that are independently owned and
operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which they are
bidding on Government contracts and qualified as such under the
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Act, 2024;
“national competitive bidding” means the open solicitation of
bids from local enterprises;
“No Objection” means permission to proceed with procurement
or disposal proceedings;
“officer” means a person who is assigned to, or employed by,
the Authority;

No. 30 of
2024

8

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

“procurement contract” means a contract between a procuring
and disposing entity and a contractor , supplier, or consultant
resulting from the procurement proceedings, including a
framework agreement;
“procurement professional” means a person having a
procurement qualification recognized by, and registered as such
with, a body responsible for regulating the procurement profession;
“procurement and disposal unit” means a department, a division
or section in each procuring and disposing entity responsible for
procurement and disposal of goods, services or works established
under section 28;
“procuring and disposing entity” means a Government ministry,
department, agency, any other public body or any sub division
thereof engaging in procurement or disposal of public assets;
“procurement proceedings” means the whole cycle of public
procurement, from initiation up to signing the contract;
“public asset” means any property, tangible or intangible, owned
by the Government or by a procuring and disposing entity;
“public procurement” means acquisition by a procuring and
disposing entity, of goods, works, services or any combination
thereof, funded in whole or in part by public funds;
“public body” means any organ or agency of the Government,
and includes__
(a) a statutory body;
(b) a local authority; and
(c) such other body as may be prescribed;
“public official” means a person employed by Government or a
public body;
“public funds” means__
(a) monetary resources appropriated to a procuring and
disposing entity through a national budget;
(b) grants, donations, or credits, put at the disposal of a
procuring and disposing entity; or
(c) revenues of a procuring and disposing entity;
“record” means any recorded information, in any format,
including an electronic format;
“regional bidder” means a bidder from countries in the region
or regional block as prescribed in the regulations;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

“responsive” means satisfying the minimum requirements of a
bidding process as stipulated in the bidding document;
“statutory body” has the meaning assigned to it in the Public
Audit Act;
“supplier” means a natural, or legal person, who has entered into
a procurement contract with a procuring and disposing entity;
“user department” means any department, division, branch or
section of the procuring and disposing entity, including any project
unit working under the authority of the procuring and disposing
entity, which initiates procurement and disposal requirements, and
is the user of the requirements; and
“works” means works associated with the construction,
re-construction, demolition, repair or renovation of a building,
road, structure or works, such as site preparation, excavation,
erection, building, installation of equipment or materials,
decoration and finishing, as well as services incidental to
construction such as drilling, mapping, satellite photography,
seismic investigations, and related services provided pursuant to a
procurement contract, if the value of those services does not exceed
that of the works themselves.
3.__(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act applies to all procurement
involving public funds and disposal of public assets.
(2) This Act shall not apply to__
(a) employment contracts;
(b) disposal of assets pursuant to employment contracts;
(c) leases or rentals, and purchase of real property;
(d) procurement of financial services as prescribed in the
Financial Services Act;
(e) procurement of media services from media institutions;
(f) procurement of hospitality services from a designated
hospitality facility;
(g) procurement contracts between the Government and a
foreign State, province of a foreign State or their respective stateowned entities;
(h) commodity exchange contracts;
(i) procurement of investors and disposal of public assets under
the Public-Private Partnership Act; and
(j) procurement under donor-financed projects if–
(i) this Act is in conflict with the procurement rules of the
donor or the financing agency; and

9

Cap. 37:01

Application
of this Act

Cap. 44:05

Cap. 39:04

10

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(ii) the application of the donor or the financing agency rule
is mandatory in the financing agreement entered into by the
Government and the donor or the financing agency.
(3) The Authority may, where procurement or disposal proceedings
involve or relate to national security, on application by the procuring
and disposing entity and taking into account the nature of the
procurement or disposal, modify the procurement and disposal
procedure under this Act.
(4) The Authority shall conduct a classified audit on a procurement
that is subject to the modified rules and procedures of procurement
and disposal under subsection (3).
(5) The Authority may, for purposes of subsection (4), access any
information, document, record or report, or, with prior notice to the
procuring and disposing entity, enter any premises of the procuring
and disposing entity.
PART II__THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL OF PUBLIC ASSETS
AUTHORITY
4. There is hereby established the Public Procurement and
Establishment
of the Public
Disposal of Public Assets Authority (in this Act otherwise referred to
Procurement
and Disposal of as the “Authority”), which shall be a body corporate with perpetual
Public Assets succession and a common seal and shall be capable, by that name,
Authority
of __
(a) doing or performing all such acts as may be necessary or
expedient for the furtherance of the provisions of this Act; and
(b) subject to this Act, doing or performing all acts as a body
corporate may, by law, do or perform or such acts as are incidental
or appertain to a body corporate.
Functions of
the Authority

5.__(1) The Authority shall be responsible for the regulation,
monitoring and oversight of public procurement and disposal of
public assets in Malawi.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
functions of the Authority shall be to__
(a) develop and enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of
public procurement and disposal of public assets operations;
(b) develop standardized and unified procurement and disposal
of public assets regulations, instructions, guidelines, and bidding
documents which shall be binding on all procuring and disposing
entities;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

11

(c) collect and establish data and information base on public
procurement and disposal of public assets and monitor the
performance of procuring and disposing entities and suppliers,
contractors, consultants and other service providers so as to
ascertain efficiency and compliance with applicable legislation;
(d) maintain and circulate lists of debarred bidders, suppliers,
contractors, consultants and other service providers;
(e) provide an annual report of procurement and disposal
activities carried out by procuring and disposing entities within
three months of the close of the financial year to the Minister, who
shall lay the report before the National Assembly, not less than six
months from the date of report;
(f) refer some violations of this Act and the regulations relating
to public procurement and disposal of public assets to the relevant
budgetary and law enforcement authorities for appropriate action;
(g) conduct administrative review of bid protests in accordance
with Part XI;
(h) carry out economic studies on public procurement and
disposal of public assets, comparisons, and future projections, so
as to provide advice to the Government in respect of the mid-term
and long-term policy it may formulate in matters of public
procurement and disposal of public assets;
(i) approve strategic plans, annual budgets and work plans of
the Authority; and
(j) facilitate the building of capacity of procuring and disposing
entities to comply with this Act.
(3) The Authority shall perform its functions and exercise its
powers provided in this Act in a manner that is impartial, and
independent of the direction, influence or interference of any person,
entity or authority.
6.—(1) The Authority may, in the discharge of its functions—
(a) through a notice published in the Gazette, set and enforce
monetary thresholds for regulating procurement and disposal
functions;
(b) issue a “No Objection” for procurements in accordance with
the thresholds set under paragraph (a);
(c) subject to paragraph (a), set a limit—
(i) below which a :“No Objection” shall be considered or issued
by the Director General; and

Powers of the
Authority

12

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(ii) above which a “No Objection” shall be subject to the
approval of the Authority;
(d) issue a subpoena within a reasonable time requiring the
production of procurement records, or other relevant financial
records or objects necessary for the performance of its duties;
(e) access, at any reasonable time and with notice, the premises
of any procuring and disposing entity whose procurement or
disposal is being monitored and request for any relevant
information from any person, including a Controlling Officer and
the head of procurement and disposal unit;
(f) summon and examine witnesses regarding any procurement
proceeding or disposal process;
(g) suspend or debar any bidder, supplier, contractor, consultant
and any other service provider that breaches any provision of this
Act from participating in procurement and disposal proceedings;
(h) carry out procurement or disposal audits annually for any
procuring and disposing entity, as well as at any time before, during
or after contract award;
(i) declare mis-procurement where applicable and impose
appropriate disciplinary and punitive measures;
(j) investigate and impose sanctions on any procuring and
disposing entity or individual involved or suspected to have been
involved in mis-procurement and any other misconduct;
(k) set special conditions for targeted procurement for purposes
of enhancing capacity and performance of micro, small and
medium enterprises, in consultation with other regulatory bodies;
(l) develop policies and measures to enhance the use of
information and communication technology in procurement,
supply management and disposal activities;
(m) issue guidelines for targeted procurement aimed at the
promotion and facilitation of participation by micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises in public procurement;
(n) in consultation and co-operation with relevant Ministries,
other organs of Government and representative bodies of micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises, devise programs and
measures to promote and to facilitate the participation of micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement;
(o) promulgate rules for the eligibility of enterprises for
designation as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises eligible
for set-asides;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

13

(p) publish in the Gazette, thresholds for acceptable arithmetical
error corrections for different procurement or disposal values; and
(q) do all such acts and things as it may consider incidental or
conducive to the exercise of its functions under this Act.
(2) In exercising its powers and functions, the Authority may__
(a) cooperate with other bodies exercising oversight functions
over procuring and disposing entities and may, for that purpose,
establish mechanisms for sharing information and working jointly
with those bodies; and
(b) establish and maintain institutional linkages with the institute
responsible for regulating the profession of procurement and other
professional bodies having interest in regulating standards of
supply chain management.
(3) The Authority shall provide strategic direction to ensure the
attainment of its functions under this Act.
(4) For the purposes of this section, “mis-procurement” means a
procurement that has not followed the laid down procedures and
guidelines.
7.__(1) The Authority shall consist of nine members comprising__
(a) six members appointed by the Minister as follows__
(i) one person registered under the Malawi Institute of
Procurement and Supply Act;
(ii) one registered architect or quantity surveyor;
(iii) one legal practitioner, possessing a valid practicing
licence in accordance with the Legal Education and Legal
Practitioners Act;
(iv) one person who is a member of Malawi Confederation of
Chambers of Commerce and Industry;
(v) one engineer registered under the Malawi Engineering
Institution Act; and
(vi) one person who is a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Malawi; and
(b)the following ex-officio members or their designated
representatives__
(i) the Secretary to the President and Cabinet;
(ii) the Secretary to the Treasury; and
(iii) the Solicitor General.

Composition
of the
Authority
Cap. 30:15

No. 31 of
2018

No. 13 of
2019

14

Cap. 30:12

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(2) A member of the Authority, other than an ex-officio member,
shall possess a minimum qualification of a bachelor's degree in their
respective fields, obtained from a reputable institution accredited or
recognized under the National Council for Higher Education Act, and
the appointment shall be subject to the approval of the Public
Appointments Committee of the National Assembly.
(3) The Minister shall appoint the Chairperson and ViceChairperson of the Authority from amongst the members appointed
under subsection (1) (a).

Cap. 25:06

(4) The Minister shall, in making appointments under subsection
(1) (a), take into account the provisions of the Gender Equality Act;
and
(5) A person, other than an ex-officio member, shall not qualify for
appointment as a member of the Authority, if that person__
(a) holds a public office;
(b) is a member of Parliament;
(c) is an undischarged bankrupt;
(d) is declared mentally or physically incapacitated by a suitably
qualified medical practitioner;
(e) is, within the period of seven years immediately preceding
the date of his or her proposed appointment, convicted and
sentenced to any term of imprisonment without the option of
paying a fine; or
(f) would for any other reason, be disqualified by law from
serving as a trustee or director of a company.
(6) A member of the Authority, other than an ex-officio member,
shall not, by virtue only of his or her appointment to the Authority,
be deemed to be an employee in the public service.
(7) The Minister shall publish, in the Gazette, the names of all
members of the Authority as first constituted, and every subsequent
change in the membership of the Authority.

Tenure and
vacancies

8.__(1) A member of the Authority, other than an ex-officio member,
shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
re-appointment for one further term of three years.
(2) The office of a member of the Authority, other than an ex-officio
member, shall become vacant__
(a) on the expiry of the term of office of the member;
(b) upon death of the member;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

(c) if the member resigns from office in accordance with
subsection (3);
(d) if a situation arises that if the member had not been
appointed, the member would have been disqualified from
appointment;
(e) if the member has been absent, without valid excuse, from
three consecutive meetings of the Board of which he or she has
had notice;
(f) upon the member becoming mentally or physically ill, where
a suitably qualified medical practitioner certifies that the member
is no longer, by reason of the illness, capable of performing duties
of the office of member of the Board; or
(g) upon the member being removed from office in accordance
with subsection (4).
(3) A member of the Authority, other than an ex-officio member,
may at any time resign from office by giving written notice to the
Minister.
(4) The Minister may remove a member of the Authority, other
than an ex-officio member, on any of the following grounds__
(a) being compromised to the extent that his or her ability to
impartially and effectively exercise the duties of his or her office
is seriously in question;
(b) incompetence in the execution of the functions of the office
of member;
(c) failure to declare a conflict of interest relating to any matter
under consideration by the Authority;
(d) disclosure or publication to any other person or entity, other
than in the course of duty, any confidential information of the
Authority obtained in the course of duty or otherwise; or
(e) misconduct that brings the Authority into disrepute.
(5) A vacancy in the membership of the Authority shall be filled,
within sixty days of the occurrence of the vacancy, by the
appointment of a new member by the Minister in accordance with
section 7.
(6) A person appointed to fill a vacancy under subsection (5) shall
serve the remainder of the term of office, but no person shall be
appointed to fill a vacancy of the remainder of a term of office where
the remainder of the term is less than six months.
(7) The period served by a person appointed under subsection (5)
shall not be regarded as a term for the purposes of subsection (1)
unless the period is two years or more.

15

16
Meetings of
the Authority

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

9.__(1) The Authority shall meet to conduct its business at least
once every three months at such place and time, as the Chairperson
shall determine after consulting the Director General.
(2) The Chairperson shall convene ordinary meetings of the
Authority by giving the members written notice of not less than
fourteen days.
(3) The Chairperson may, in consultation with the Director
General, convene an extraordinary meeting of the Authority upon
giving the members written notice of not less than three days.
(4) The Chairperson shall convene an extraordinary meeting within
seven days of receipt of a request in writing signed by not less than
four members specifying the purpose for which the meeting is to be
convened.
(5) A quorum at every meeting of the Authority shall be constituted
by five members.
(6) The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the ViceChairperson, shall preside over all meetings of the Authority, and in
absence of both the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, the members
present and forming a quorum shall elect one of their number to
preside over such meeting, and the member so elected shall exercise
all the powers and perform all the duties of the Chairperson.
(7) A decision of the Authority at any meeting on any matter shall
be that of the majority of the members present and voting, and at all
meetings, the person presiding shall have, in the event of an equality
of votes, a casting vote in addition to a deliberate vote.
(8) The Authority may, where necessary taking into account the
nature of the matter to be deliberated, invite any person to attend its
meeting, or any of its committee meeting, and participate in the
deliberations or make a presentation or be asked questions on any
matter, but the person so invited shall not be entitled to vote.
(9) The Director General or, in his or her absence, such other
employee of the Authority as the Director General may designate,
shall be the secretary of the Authority, and may address the meetings,
but shall not vote on any matter transacted at the meeting.
(10) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Authority shall
regulate its meetings and proceedings in such a manner as it deems
fit.
(11) Subject to subsection (12), any decision of the Authority shall
be evidenced by the signature of the Chairperson and the Director
General, and under the seal of the Authority.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

17

(12) Where a decision was made in the absence of the Chairperson,
the decision shall be signed by the member who chaired the meeting
as chairperson.
(13) Where a decision was made in the absence of the Director
General, the decision shall be signed by the member who was
delegated by the Director General as the Secretariat of the meeting.
(14) Where, at any meeting, the deliberations of the Authority, or
any of its committee, concerns the Director General, or any member
of staff of the Authority designated to attend the meeting, the
Authority or the committee, as the case may be, may exclude the
Director General, or the member of staff, from the meeting.
10.__(1) The Authority may, for the better exercise of its functions
and powers, establish committees of the Authority to perform any of
its functions and carry out such other responsibilities as the Authority
may specify.

Committees
of the
Authority

(2) The Authority shall appoint a chairperson for each committee
of the Authority from amongst the members appointed under section
7 (1) (a).
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Authority may itself
exercise the functions of a committee of the Authority, and may
amend or rescind any decision of the committee.
(4) The Chairperson of a committee of the Authority may at any
reasonable time and place convene a meeting of that committee.
(5) The Director General shall serve as secretary at meetings of
each committee of the Authority, or may, with the approval of the
Chairperson, delegate a senior member of staff to serve as secretary
at meetings of a committee.
(6) A committee of the Authority shall act in accordance with any
directions given to it in writing by the Authority.
11. A member of the Authority or a committee of the Authority,
other than an ex-officio member, shall attend meetings of the
Authority or a committee of the Authority in person, and where a
member is unable to attend any meeting, the member may request
that his or her apology for failure to attend the meeting be recorded.

Personal
attendance of
meetings

12.__(1) A member of the Authority and a member of a committee
of the Authority shall be paid such allowances as the Minister shall
determine, after consulting the Government department responsible
for human resource development and management.

Allowances
and expenses

18

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(2) The Authority may reimburse any reasonable expenses incurred
in connection with the business of the Authority by a member of the
Authority, a member of a committee of the Authority or a person
invited to attend a meeting of the Authority under section 9(8), or a
committee of the Authority.
Delegation of
powers and
functions of
the Authority

13. The Authority may, subject to this Act and any terms and
conditions it considers appropriate, delegate to the Director General
any of its powers and functions under this Act.
PART III__ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat of
the Authority

14. There shall be a secretariat of the Authority which shall consist
of the Director General and other members of staff of the Authority
appointed in accordance with this Act.

Director
General of the
Authority

15.__(1) The Authority shall appoint the Director General through
an open and competitive selection process on such terms and
conditions as the Authority may determine, after consulting the
Government department responsible for human resource management
and development.
(2) The Director General shall be the head of the secretariat and
his or her office shall be a public office.

Cap 30:12

(3) A person shall not be eligible for appointment as Director
General, unless the person__
(a) possesses a minimum qualification of a master’s degree
obtained from an education institution accredited or recognized
under the National Council for Higher Education Act in the
following areas__
(i) supply chain management;
(ii) finance;
(iii) economics;
(iv) engineering;
(v) accountancy;
(vi) commerce;
(vii) law; or
(viii) administration;
(b) has proven demonstrable expertise and work experience in
procurement;
(c) has not less than ten years’ experience in executive
management; and
(d) does not hold a political office.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

16.__(1) The Director General shall be the Chief Executive Officer
of the Authority and shall, subject to the general supervision and
control of the Authority, be in overall in charge of__
(a) day to day operations of the Authority;
(b) management of the funds, property and business of the
Authority; and
(c) effective administration and implementation of the
provisions of this Act.
(2) Subject to the general and special direction of the Authority,
the Director General shall__
(a) ensure the availability of this Act and any subsidiary
legislation made thereunder to the general public and all other
stakeholders;
(b) collect information and require reports from procuring and
disposing entities concerning the conduct of procurement, supply
management and disposal activities in prescribed format, and
advise procuring and disposing entities on any improvements
required;
(c) establish procedures and mechanisms to ensure the effective
and timely solicitation of views of interested parties in the
development of procurement and disposal policies, regulations,
procedures and forms;
(d) publish periodic bulletins containing information about the
procurement systems and proceedings including supply
management and asset disposal procedures;
(e) conduct civic education on the legal, procedural and
organizational framework for procurement and disposal of public
assets;
(f) appoint ad-hoc technical committees comprising technical
officers of the Authority, for purposes of implementing the
provisions of this Act;
(g) in consultation with relevant stakeholders, devise and
facilitate the implementation of strategies and programmes for the
promotion of professional standards and development in public
procurement and disposal of public assets; and
(h) promote the development of a professional supply chain
work force, including organizing and conducting training
programmes relating to public procurement and disposal of public
assets.

19
Functions of
the Director
General

20

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(3) The Director General shall devote his or her full time to the
duties of his or her office and shall provide the Authority with all the
information, data, statistics, documents and other materials pertinent
to the efficient performance by the Authority of its functions and
responsibilities under this Act or any other written law.
(4) The Director General may, with the approval of the Authority,
delegate any duty or responsibility assigned to him or to her under
this Act to a member of staff of the Authority.
Tenure and
removal of the
Director
General

17.__(1) The Director General shall hold office for a term of three
years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for one further term of
three years.
(2) The Authority may terminate the appointment of the Director
General before expiry of his or her employment contract where the
Director General—
(a) is incompetent in the execution of the functions of the office;
(b) is not able to perform the functions of his or her office by
reason of physical or mental infirmity;
(c) is declared or adjudged bankrupt by a competent court of
law;
(d) is convicted of an offence and sentenced to a term of
imprisonment without the option of paying a fine;
(e) commits a misconduct that brings the office of Director
General or the Authority into disrepute;
(f) fails to declare a conflict of interest relating to any matter
under consideration by his or her office or the Authority; or
(g) is found guilty of a misconduct punishable by dismissal
under his or her employment contract.
(3) The Authority, if it considers desirable in the public interest so
to do, may suspend the Director General from exercising the duties
of the office for up to sixty days, pending investigations to determine
whether or not the Director General may be removed from the office
under subsection (2).
(4) The Director General shall not be removed from office unless
the Director General has been given an opportunity to be heard.

Acting
Director
General

18.__(1) Where the office of the Director General is vacant, or the
Director General is temporarily absent from duty or unable for any
other reason to perform the functions of that office, the Authority
shall appoint another duly qualified person within the Authority to
act as Director General during the vacancy or temporary absence.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

21

(2) Where the period of the vacancy or temporary absence in
subsection (1) has exceeded twenty-one days, the Authority shall,
within fourteen days thereafter, furnish the Minister the reasons why
the vacancy in the office cannot be substantively filled with
immediate effect and an estimate of the time within which the
vacancy shall be filled, which shall not be longer than six months
from the expiry of the twenty-one days.
19.__(1) The Authority shall employ other members of staff,
subordinate to the Director General, for the performance of the
functions of the Authority, on such terms and conditions determined
by the Authority, and the appointment shall only be based on
qualifications, experience and capacity in matters relating to the
operational requirements of the Authority.

Other staff of
the Authority

(2) The Authority may, by directions in writing, delegate to the
Director General the appointment, discipline and dismissal of
members of staff in specified junior ranks and the Director General
shall report to the Authority, at its next meeting, every appointment,
disciplinary decision or dismissal made pursuant to this subsection.
(3) The members of staff appointed under this section shall be
appointed on such terms and conditions as the Authority shall
determine after consulting the Government department responsible
for human resource management and development.
(4) Section 17 shall apply, with the necessary modifications, to
termination of employment contracts of members of staff employed
under this section.
PART IV— FUNDS AND PROPERTY OF THE AUTHORITY
20.__(1) The funds and property of the Authority shall consist of—
(a) such sums as shall be appropriated annually by Parliament
for the purposes of the Authority from; fees, fines, levies,
subscriptions and other moneys payable to the Authority;
(b) such moneys or other assets as may accrue to or vest in the
Authority by way of grants, donations, gifts, subscriptions, rents,
interest or royalties, from any other person; and
(c) proceeds from sale by the Authority, of any of its assets or
property.
(2) All the moneys of the Authority which, at the end of each
financial year, are in excess of the budgetary requirements of the
Authority for that year shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Funds of the
Authority

22

Cap. 37:01
4 of 2022
Cap. 37:03
Levies, fees;
etc.

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(3) The Authority shall, at all times, comply with the provisions of
the Public Audit Act, the Public Finance Management Act and the
Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Act.
21.__(1) The Authority may, from time to time, impose and collect
levies on public procurement or disposal proceedings.
(2) The Authority may not impose and collect any levy on the
procurement of utilities and groceries.
(3) The levy referred to in subsection (1) shall be equal to one per
cent of the procurement or disposal contract emanating from such
proceedings less Value Added Tax to the amount.
(4) A procuring and disposing entity shall remit the levy referred
to in subsection (1) to the Authority within fourteen days from the
date of effecting the payment to the supplier, contractor or consultant,
as the case may be.
(5) Where a procuring and disposing entity fails to comply with
subsection (4), the Controlling Officer of the entity shall personally
be liable to a penalty as may be prescribed.
(6) In addition to the penalty provided in subsection (5), the
Authority shall report the procuring and disposing entity to the
Secretary to the Treasury who may instruct the Controlling Officer
to pay, within thirty days, the amount that is due to the Authority plus
ten percent.
(7) A procuring and disposing entity that fails to make a payment
in accordance with subsection (6) shall be liable to such further
penalty as may be prescribed.
(8) The Authority may charge fees to cover the costs of performing
its functions, including__
(a) registration of suppliers and other service providers;
(b) training or capacity development;
(c) publications and use of the website for commercial purposes;
(d) processing applications for review of procurement decisions;
and
(e) any other consultancy services offered by the Authority.
(9) The Authority shall determine the manner in which levies, fees
and other monies payable to the Authority for its service under this
Act may be paid before performance of the service.
(10) The Authority shall, by notice published the Gazette, prescribe
the levies, fees and other monies payable to the Authority under this
Act.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

22.__(1) The Authority shall cause to be kept proper books of
accounts and other records relating to its accounts in accordance with
the Public Finance Management Act.
(2) The accounts of the Authority shall be audited at the end of
each financial year in accordance with the Public Audit Act.
23.__(1) Subject to subsection (2) the financial year of the Authority
shall be same as the financial year of the Government.
(2) The Authority may, for good reasons, determine a shorter or
longer financial year than the Government financial year but being
not less than six months and not more than eighteen months.

23
Accounting
and audit
4 of 2022

Cap.37:01
Financial year
of the
Authority

PART V__RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONTROLLING OFFICERS, INTERNAL
PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL COMMITTEES, PROCUREMENT AND
DISPOSAL UNITS AND AD-HOC EVALUATION TEAMS
24.__(1) A Controlling Officer shall ensure that the procuring and
disposing entity complies with this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), a
Controlling Officer shall be responsible for__
(a) appointing members of the Internal Procurement and
Disposal Committee;
(b) submitting annual procurement and disposal plans, quarterly
reports and other statutory reports as may be prescribed from time
to time;
(c) providing corrective measures to prevent misconducts
throughout the procurement and disposal processes;
(d) managing bidders' protests and grievances;
(e) reporting misconducts by bidders, suppliers or public
officials, to the Authority and other relevant bodies;
(f) implementing disciplinary measures against public
officials;
(g) ensuring that procurement and disposal documentation is
made available to the Authority and other oversight institutions
whenever required; and
(h) providing leadership and oversight role of the procuring and
disposing entity.
(3) Where a Controlling Officer fails to comply with his or her
responsibilities as provided in subsection (2), the Authority shall
recommend to the relevant authorities the imposition of any of the
following sanctions—

Responsibilities of a
Controlling
Officer

24

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(a) the withholding of the annual budget for procurement of the
procuring and disposing entity from Treasury;
(b) a reprimand by the appointing authority; and
(c) the bearing of any loss suffered by the procuring and
disposing entity or part thereof by the Controlling Officer.
Establishment
of Internal
Procurement
and Disposal
Committees

25.__(1) There shall be established in all procuring and disposing
entities, an Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee.
(2) The functions of the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee shall include__
(a) ascertaining the availability of funds to pay for each
procurement;
(b) approving the methods of procurement and disposal to be
used in each case;
(c) approving the procurement and disposal plans for the
procuring and disposing entity;
(d) appointing the chairperson of the bid opening committee
from amongst its membership;
(e) appointing ad-hoc evaluation teams for the examination,
evaluation and comparison of bids;
(f) reviewing and approving bid evaluation reports;
(g) reviewing and approving any contract amendments;
(h) approving advertisements and bidding documents before
their issuance to prospective bidders;
(i) approving recommendations for the award of contracts from
ad-hoc evaluation teams, including terms and conditions of contract
where appropriate;
(j) assessing performance of suppliers in relation to terms and
conditions of contracts;
(k) approving recommendations for contract termination;
(l) constituting negotiating teams;
(m) appointing boards of survey for the assessment and
valuation of the public assets to be disposed;
(n) reviewing and approving reports of boards of survey;
(o) approving recommendations for award of contract from
boards of survey, including terms and conditions of contract where
applicable; and
(p) setting procurement thresholds for procurement proceedings
that a Procurement and Disposal Unit may process.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

26.__(1) An Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee shall
comprise senior personnel appointed by the Controlling Officer who
shall be well informed of public procurement and disposal of public
assets matters, and shall meet the minimum qualifications as
prescribed in Regulations.
(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection (1),
membership of the Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee
shall at a minimum comprise__
(a) a senior officer designated by the Controlling Officer as the
chairperson of the Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee;
(b) head of the procurement and disposal unit or his
representative;
(c) an accountant or other budget professional; and
(d) other senior officers.
(3) Except as the Authority may otherwise approve, an Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee shall comprise a maximum of
seven members, and a Controlling Officer shall provide justification
in writing to the Authority for the appointment of any additional
member of the Committee.
(4) The quorum at a meeting of an Internal Procurement and
Disposal Committee shall be made of the chairperson of the
Committee, the head of the procurement and disposal unit, and an
accountant or budget professional.
(5) A member of an Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee
shall serve for two years and shall be eligible to be re-appointed for
another term of two years.
(6) The head of the procurement and disposal unit, or his or her
representative, shall attend all meetings of the Internal Procurement
and Disposal Committee, and shall provide technical guidance to the
Committee, and the procurement and disposal unit shall act as the
secretariat of the Committee.
(7) A Controlling Officer shall ensure that persons appointed as
members of the Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee
undergo appropriate training by the Authority, in public procurement
and disposal of public assets, within three months of their
appointment.
(8) A Controlling Officer shall rotate membership of the Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee as the Controlling Officer
determines appropriate.
(9) A Controlling Officer may remove a member of Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee for the following reasons__

25
Composition
of Internal
Procurement
and Disposal
Committees

26

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(a) incapacity, or other inability, to perform functions of the
Committee;
(b) abuse of office;
(c) corrupt or fraudulent practices;
(d) failure to attend three consecutive scheduled meetings
without justifiable reasons; or
(e) incompetence.
Ad-hoc
evaluation
teams and
boards of
survey

27.__(1) Whenever there is a procurement or disposal proceeding,
the Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee shall appoint an
ad-hoc evaluation team or a board of survey, to evaluate bids and
carry out due diligence, as the case may be.
(2) An ad-hoc evaluation team shall have a minimum of three and
a maximum of nine members, including__
(a) the head of the procurement and disposal unit or his or her
representative, who shall be the secretary of the ad-hoc evaluation
team;
(b) member from the user or disposing department; and
(c) three non-Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee
members, who have technical knowledge of the procurement or
disposal bids to be evaluated.
(3) A quorum for an ad-hoc evaluation team shall be made up of
the head of the procurement and disposal unit or his or her
representative representative of the user department, two members
non-Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee members, who
have technical knowledge of the evaluation of procurement bids.
(4) The head of procurement and disposal unit, or his or her
representative, shall attend meetings of the ad-hoc evaluation team
and shall provide technical guidance to the evaluation team, and take
part in decision making and the procurement and disposal unit shall
be the secretariat of the ad-hoc evaluation team.
(5) A board of survey shall have a minimum of three and a
maximum of nine members, including__
(a) member from the user or disposing department;
(b) up to three non-Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee members who have technical knowledge of the
disposal bids to be evaluated; and
(c) the head of the procurement and disposal unit, or his or her
representative.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

27

(6) A quorum for a board of survey shall be comprised of the head
of procurement and disposal unit, or his or her representative, a
representative of the user department, and two non-Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee members, who have technical
knowledge of the public assets to be disposed.
(7) The head of procurement and disposal unit, or his or her
representative, shall provide technical advice to the board of survey,
and take part in decision making, and the procurement and disposal
unit shall be the secretariat of the board of survey.
(8) An ad-hoc evaluation team or a board of survey, as the case
may be, shall commence an evaluation within seven days of its
appointment.
(9) The use of expertise from outside the public sector as members
of ad-hoc evaluation teams, boards of survey or consultants shall only
be resorted to in exceptional circumstances and only upon the prior
approval of the Authority.
28.__(1) Procuring and disposing entities shall establish
procurement and disposal units which shall comprise qualified
procurement and disposal professionals registered under the Malawi
Institute of Procurement and Supply Act, and assign to such units
authority to conduct procurement and disposal activities in
accordance with this Act.
(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection (1), the
functions of the procurement and disposal units shall include__
(a) providing technical guidance on procurement and disposal
matters to the procuring and disposing entity;
(b) receiving duly authorized procurement requisition for
analysis in relation to the annual procurement plan;
(c) preparing procurement and disposal plans and reports for the
procuring and disposing entity;
(d) preparing bidding documents;
(e) publishing invitations to bid notices and distribution of
bidding documents;
(f) receiving and safeguarding bids;
(g) facilitating meetings of the Internal Procurement and
Disposal Committee;
(h) keeping records of all procurement and disposal activities
carried out by the procuring and disposing entity;
(i) acting as the secretariat to the meetings of the Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee, ad-hoc evaluation team and
board of survey;

Establishment
of
procurement
and disposal
units

28

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(j) facilitating the evaluation of simple low value procurements
as prescribed by the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee; and
(k) preparing contract documentation and managing the resultant
contracts in conjunction with user departments.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall, if it does not have a
procurement and disposal unit seek guidance from the Authority on
how to execute its procurement and disposal activities.
(4) For the purposes of this section, “bid notice” means any
advertisement by which eligible bidders are invited to submit written
offers to provide or acquire works, services and goods or any
combination of them in case of procurement and disposal
respectively.
PART VI__PRINCIPLES OF PUBLIC PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL OF
PUBLIC ASSETS
Principles of
public
procurement

29.__(l) A procuring and disposing entity shall__
(a) conduct public procurement proceedings in a manner that
promotes transparency, accountability, non-discrimination,
fairness, open competition, economy, procurement efficiency and
responsiveness to modern information and communications
technology; and
(b) ensure that public procurement proceedings maximize value
for money.
(2) A bidder shall not be excluded from participating in
procurement on the basis of nationality, race, religion, gender or any
other criterion not related to qualification, except to the extent
provided for in this Act.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall, in all procurement
proceedings, choose appropriate procedures and cause the
procurement to be carried out diligently and efficiently, so that the
prices received by the procuring and disposing entity represent the
best value or net outcome that can reasonably be obtained from the
procurement.
(4) A procuring and disposing entity shall plan procurement
activities with a view to achieving maximum value from any
procurement and other objectives set forth in this Act.

Sustainable
procurement
and disposal

30. A procuring and disposing entity shall, when conducting
procurement or disposal proceedings, consider__

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

29

(a) all aspects of sustainable procurement and disposal including
environmental protection and social and economic inclusion; and
(b) procurement and disposal that stimulates innovation.
31.__(l) A procuring and disposing entity shall__
(a) conduct disposal proceedings in a manner that promotes
transparency, accountability, non- discrimination, fairness, open
competition, efficiency and responsiveness to modern information
and communications technology; and
(b) ensure that disposal proceedings maximize value for money.

Principles of
disposal of
assets

(2) A bidder shall not be excluded from participating in disposal
on the basis of nationality, race, religion, gender or any other criterion
not related to qualification, except to the extent provided for in this
Act.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall, in all disposal
proceedings, choose appropriate procedures and cause the disposal
of assets to be carried out diligently and efficiently, so that the prices
received by the procuring and disposing entity represent the best
value or net outcome that can reasonably be obtained for the assets
disposed of.
(4) Procuring and disposing entity shall plan disposal activities
with a view to achieving maximum value from any such disposals
and other objectives set forth in this Act.
(5) A procuring and disposing entity shall, take due care of all
assets earmarked for disposal until such time the actual disposal is
concluded as prescribed in this Act.
32.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall maintain records of
all procurement and disposal proceedings for a period of seven years
from the date of__
(a) contract completion or termination;
(b) the decision to cancel the procurement or disposal
proceedings;
(c) the settlement of any dispute under a procurement or disposal
contract; or
(d) the resolution of any complaint, challenge or appeal made
under this Act.
(2) Where the period referred to in subsection (1) has expired, but
the documentation has not been subjected to an audit, the records of
procurement and disposal proceedings shall still be maintained by
the procuring and disposing entity until the records are audited.

Records of
procurement
and disposal
proceedings

30

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

Mode of
communication

33. All communication, including electronic communication,
between a procuring and disposing entity and a bidder, supplier or
contractor shall be in English and in writing.

Confidentiality

34.__(1) A public official shall keep confidential, the information
that comes into his or her possession relating to the procurement and
disposal proceedings and bids, including any bidder's proprietary
information.
(2) The procuring and disposing entity may, upon request from an
unsuccessful bidder, communicate to a bidder the grounds for the
rejection of its bid.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence,
and shall, upon conviction, be liable to__
(a) a fine of K1,000,000, and to imprisonment for twelve
months; and
(b) disciplinary action.

Limitation on
contracts with
employees

35. A procuring and disposing entity shall not enter__
(a) into a procurement contract; or
(b) subject to section 36, into a disposal contract,
with a member of the procuring and disposing entity, or a close
relative of a member of the procuring and disposing entity.

Disposal of
goods to

36. The Authority may, on application by a Controlling Officer,
and stating the reasons therefor, authorize the disposal to employees
of goods and items used by employees and no longer required by a
procuring and disposing entity, on such terms and conditions as the
Authority may deem fit.

Participation
by micro,
small and
medium

37.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may, in the prescribed
manner__
(a) grant a margin of preference for the benefit of a bid by a
micro small and medium enterprise offering goods, works,
consultancy services or other services manufactured, grown or
performed by a local enterprise; and
(b) reserve or set aside certain procurement requirements for
micro, small and medium enterprises by restricting bidding to those
enterprises as prescribed in the Act.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the Authority,
in consultation with the Minister responsible for micro, small and
medium enterprises, may, by notice published in the Gazette,
prescribe any preference or reservation for micro, small and medium
enterprises.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

31

PART VII__PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL METHODS
38.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall undertake public
procurement and disposal proceedings by means of open methods of
tender proceedings, subject to the exceptions provided in this Act.

Methods of
procurement
and disposal

(2) A procuring and disposing entity shall submit an application to
the Authority for the use of a method of procurement, other than open
tender or, in the case of procurement of consultancy services, a
method other than request for proposals.
(3) The procuring and disposing entity shall note in the record of
the procurement proceedings, the grounds for the choice of the
procurement method.
(4) When seeking approval from the Authority to use the method
other than open tender or in the case of procurement of consultancy
services, a method other than request of proposal, the procuring and
disposing entity shall provide written reasons with sufficient clarity
to the Authority for the choice of the procurement method
(5) A procuring and disposing entity shall undertake procurement
and disposal proceedings through electronic government procurement
system as prescribed in section 71.
39. A procuring and disposing entity may hold a tender in two
stages in the following cases if__
(a) it is not feasible at the outset of the procurement proceedings
to define fully the technical or contractual aspects of the
procurement; or
(b) due to the complex nature of the goods, works and services
to be procured, the procuring and disposing entity wishes to
consider various technical or contractual solutions, and to negotiate
with bidders about the relative merits of those variants, before
deciding on the final technical or contractual specifications.

Two stage
tendering

40. A procuring and disposing entity shall use national
competitive bidding where__
(a) the procurement targets local enterprises;
(b) the estimated value of the procurement does not exceed an
amount prescribed by the Authority;
(c) the goods, works or services are available under competitive
price and other conditions, and there are more than two suppliers
in Malawi; or
(d) a supplier was not identified by a request for quotation
proceeding.

National
competitive
bidding

32

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

Restricted
tendering

41. A procuring and disposing entity may use restricted tendering
where__
(a) the goods, works or services are available from a limited
number of suppliers, all of whom are known to the procuring and
disposing entity; and
(b) the time and cost of considering a large number of bids is
disproportionate to the value of the procurement.

International
competitive
bidding

42. A procuring and disposing entity shall use international
competitive bidding where__
(a) the estimated value of the stated procurement exceeds the
amount prescribed by the Authority;
(b) the goods, works or services are not available under
competitive price and other conditions from more than two
suppliers in Malawi; or
(c) a supplier was not identified by a national competitive
bidding proceeding.

Request for
proposals

43. A procuring and disposing entity shall use the method
of request for proposals for the procurement of consultancy
services.

Request for
quotations

44. A procuring and disposing entity may use the method of
request for quotations for the procurement of goods, works and
routine services when the estimated value of the procurement does
not exceed the amount prescribed by the Authority.

Single
sourcing

45.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may use single sourcing
procurement method where__
(a) the estimated value of the procurement does not exceed the
amount prescribed by the Authority;
(b) only one supplier has the technical capability or capacity to
fulfill the procurement requirement, or only one supplier has the
exclusive right to manufacture the goods, carry out the works, or
perform the services to be procured;
(c) there is an emergency need for the goods, works and
services; or
(d) the procuring and disposing entity, having procured goods,
works and services from a supplier; determines that additional
goods, works or services need to procured from the same source
for reasons of standardization or because of the need for
compatibility with existing goods, equipment, technology, or
services, taking into account the effectiveness of the original

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

33

procurement in meeting the needs of the procuring and disposing
entity, the limited size of the proposed procurement in relation to
the original procurement, the reasonableness of the price and the
unsuitability of alternatives to the goods or services in question.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity shall obtain clearance issued
by the Anti-Corruption Bureau pursuant to the powers conferred on
the Bureau under section 10 of the Corrupt Practices Act, before a
single sourcing procurement contract is signed.

Cap.7:04

(3) A procuring and disposing entity may submit a request for
clearance of single sourcing procurement method under subsection
(2) to Anti-Corruption Bureau concurrently with its submission to the
Authority.
(4) The Authority shall, through a notice in the Gazette, prescribe
a threshold for single sourcing procurement requiring clearance under
subsection (2).
46.__(1) Subject to subsection 2, a public body may, where the
public body or another public body, has capacity, use the method of
force account in undertaking construction works.
(2) The Authority shall, by notice pushed in the gazette, prescribe
a threshold value of construction works requiring its approval before
the force account method is used by a public body.
(3) A public body shall, where the value of the construction works
to be undertaken through the force account method exceed a threshold
prescribed by the Authority under subsection 2, seek approval of the
Authority before undertaking the construction works.
(4) The Authority shall, when considering the submission under
subsection 3, consider if__
(a) the public body proposed to undertake the force account
method, has capacity to undertake the construction works;
(b) the force account method is the only practical method of
undertaking the construction works;
(c) the construction works required to be carried out shall not
disrupt on-going operations of the public body;
(d) the quantities of the construction works may not be defined
in advance for purposes of procuring proceedings under this Act;
(e) the construction works are scattered or in remote locations
for which qualified contractor may not bid at a reasonable price;
(f) the public body is in a better position to manage the
construction risks than an independent contractor; and

Force account

34

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(g) there is an emergency that requires immediate construction
works
(5) The public body shall, when procuring or disposing materials
for construction works implemented through the force account
method procure or dispose of such materials in accordance with
procuring and disposal procedures under this Act.
(6) For purposes of this section, “force account” means
construction method in which a public body uses its resources,
equipment and personnel or resources, equipment and personnel of
another public body, to undertake construction works.
Community
participation

47.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may use the method of
public procurement by means of community participation where
the__
(a) participation of the beneficiary community of a project may
result in enhancing the economy, or the quality or sustainability of
the service to be procured; or
(b) objective of the project is to create employment in the
community.
(2) Where a procuring and disposing entity uses community
participation, the beneficiary community, shall participate in the
procurement in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the
Authority.

Reverse
auction

48.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may use a reverse auction
procurement method for purposes of seeking competitive pricing
(2) A procuring and disposing entity may use reverse auction, if__
(a) it is feasible for the procuring and disposing entity to
formulate a detailed description of the subject matter of the
procurement;
(b) there is a competitive market of bidders anticipated to be
qualified to participate in the electronic reverse auction, to ensure
effective competition; and
(c) the criteria to be used by the procuring and disposing entity
in determining the successful bid are quantifiable and can be
expressed in monetary terms.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall use the reverse auction
method if it is using the electronic government procurement and
disposal system.
(4) The procedure for reverse auction shall include__

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

35

(a) solicitation of bids through an invitation to the reverse
auction published or communicated in accordance with this Act;
and
(b) details relating to__
(i) access to, and registration for, the reverse auction;
(ii) the opening and closing of the reverse auction;
(iii) norms for conduct of the reverse auction; and
(iv) any other information that may be relevant to the reverse
auction.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (3), the Authority may prescribe
other procedures relating to a reverse auction.
(6) For the purposes of this section, “reverse auction” means an
online real-time procurement method used to select a successful bid,
which involves presentation by pre-qualified bidders.
49.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity, may, in emergency
procurement, use any of the following approaches__
(a) request for quotations;
(b) restricted tender;
(c) open tender; or
(d) single source.

Emergency
procurement

(2) The Authority shall conduct a post procurement audit on an
emergency procurement.
50. A procuring and disposing entity may procure from another
public body if the procurement is competitive and brings value for
money compared to procurement from another entity without
application of any method of procurement under this Act, except that
the public body must be able to meet the requirements of the
procuring and disposing entity as specified in the statement of
requirements.

Procurement
from other
procuring and
disposing
entities

51.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall dispose public assets
by open means such as public auction and tendering with sealed bids.

Disposal of
assets

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (l), a procuring and disposing
entity may, with the prior approval of the Authority, use alternative
means of disposing public assets, including__
(a) transfer the asset to another procuring and disposing entity;
(b) destruction of the asset;
(c) trade-in;
(d) conversion or classification of asset into another form;

36

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(e) subject to section 36, sale to employees of the procuring and
disposal entity; or
(f) forward auction.
Forward
auction

52.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may use forward auction
disposal method.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity may use forward auction
disposal method, if__
(a) it is feasible for the procuring and disposing entity to
formulate a detailed description of the subject matter of the
disposal;
(b) there is a competitive market of bidders anticipated to be
qualified to participate in the forward auction; and
(c) the criteria to be used by the procuring and disposing entity
in determining the successful bid is quantifiable and capable of
being expressed in monetary terms.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall only use the forward
auction method if it is using the electronic government procurement
and disposal system.
(4) The procedure for forward auction shall include__
(a) solicitation of bids through an invitation to the forward
auction published or communicated in accordance with this Act;
and
(b) details relating to__
(i) access to, and registration for, the auction;
(ii) the opening and closing of the auction;
(iii) norms for conduct of the auction; and
(iv) any other information that may be relevant to this method
of disposal.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the Authority may prescribe
other procedures relating to a forward auction disposal method.
(6) For the purposes of this section, “forward auction” means an
on-line real-time disposal method utilized by a procuring and
disposing entity to select a successful bidder.

Deviations

53. The Authority may, in a prescribed manner and form,
authorize a procuring and disposing entity to deviate from the use of
a public procurement or disposal method, rules, process, or document
where__
(a) exceptional requirements make it impossible, impractical, or
uneconomical to comply with the provisions of this Act;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

37

(b) market conditions or behaviour do not allow the effective
application of the procurement or disposal methods, rules,
processes, or documents; or
(c) specialized or particular requirements are regulated or
governed by international standards or practices.
54. A procuring and disposing entity may undertake procurement
proceedings through a framework agreement as prescribed under
regulations.

Framework
agreements

PART VIII__PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL PLANNING AND PROCEEDINGS
55.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall plan procurement
and disposal activities with a view to achieving maximum value from
both public expenditures and disposal proceedings, including other
objectives set forth in this Act.

Planning of
procurement
and disposal
activities

(2) A procuring and disposing entity shall not split procurement
requirements with a view to circumventing the use of competitive
methods of procurement as prescribed in this Act.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an
offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine of K5,000,000,
and to imprisonment for two years.
(4) A procuring and disposing entity shall submit the procurement
and disposal plans to the Authority by the last date of the first month
of each financial year.
(5) A Controlling Officer who fails to comply with subsection (4)
shall be liable to an administrative penalty of K500,000.
(6) The Authority shall report the Controlling Officer to relevant
authorities for disciplinary sanctions in case of non-compliance with
the penalty imposed pursuant to subsection (5).
56.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall publish an invitation
to tender, or an invitation to prequalify, in–
(a) the Gazette;
(b) at least one national widely circulated newspaper;
(c) in the electronic media;
(d) on the websites of the procurement and disposing entity and
the Authority; and
(e) in the case of international tendering, shall also be published
in internationally recognized business portals and other media of
wide international circulation.

Publication of
invitation to
bid

38

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection (1), the
procuring and disposing entity shall publish in the Gazette all
procurements of values and nature as may be prescribed from time
to time by the Authority.
(3) In addition to the publication referred to in subsection (1), the
procuring and disposing entity shall display the invitation to tender,
or an invitation to prequalify, in the head office of the procuring and
disposing entity in a publicly accessible place.
Issuance of
bidding
documents

57.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall ensure that a bidding
document__
(a) is provided to all bidders responding to the invitation to
tender or, in the event of pre-qualification proceedings, to all
bidders that have been pre-qualified;
(b) provides bidders with the information that they require in
order to submit bids that are responsive to the needs of the
procuring and disposing entity;
(c) includes the terms and conditions of the resultant contract;
and
(d) includes technical specifications that promote the broadest
possible competition, while ensuring performance or other
requirements for the procurement are based on relevant technical
characteristics and performance requirements.
(2) Where a fee is charged for the bidding documents, the fee shall
only reflect the cost of printing and distributing the documents.
(3) All bidders shall be provided with the same information.
(4) A bidder may request a clarification of the bidding documents
from the procuring and disposing entity, and the procuring and
disposing entity shall respond to the request before the deadline for
submission of bids, but a procuring and disposing entity may not
respond to the request if the request is submitted seven days before
the deadline.
(5) The procuring and disposing entity shall respond to a request
under subsection (4) so as to enable the bidder to make a timely
submission of its bid and shall, without identifying the source of the
request, communicate the clarification to all bidders to which the
procuring and disposing entity has provided the bidding documents.
(6) The procuring and disposing entity may, at any time prior to
the deadline for submission of bids, for any reason, whether on its
own initiative or as a result of a request for clarification by a bidder,
modify the bidding documents by issuing an addendum, and the

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

39

addendum shall be communicated promptly to all bidders to which
the procuring and disposing entity has provided the bidding
documents and the addendum shall be binding on those bidders.
58.__(1) A bid shall be submitted in written form as instructed in
the bidding document.

Submission
of bids

(2) A bidding document may provide for submission of bids
electronically where a procuring and disposing entity puts in place
measures to protect the confidentiality of bidders' bids, and to ensure
their authenticity and integrity.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall, upon request, provide
to a bidder a receipt showing the date and time when its tender was
received.
(4) The deadline for submission of bids shall be set taking into
account the nature of the procurement or disposal process and the
time required for the preparation of bids.
(5) The minimum bidding periods for the various procurements
shall be as follows__
(a) for international competitive bidding, thirty days;
(b) for national competitive bidding, twenty days;
(c) for restricted tender, fifteen days;
(d) for request for proposals, fifteen days;
(e) for request for quotations method, five days;
(f) for single sourcing, five days; and
(g) emergency procurement, twenty-four hours.
(6) A procuring and disposing entity shall seek prior approval from
the Authority to carry out specific procurement for a shorter bidding
period than provided in subsection (5).
59.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall set a validity period
for a bid that is of sufficient length to enable the procuring and
disposing entity to complete the procurement processes up to signing
of the procurement contract.
(2) If, prior to the expiry of the validity period of a bid, the
procuring and disposing entity requests a bidder to extend the validity
period of a bid, it shall address such a request to all the bidders.
(3) A refusal to extend the bid validity period shall not result in
forfeiture of the bid security, if a bid security was required in the first
place.

Bid validity
periods

40

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(4) The extension of a bid validity period shall be subject to
extension of the bid security, if security was required in the first place
and without such an extension of the bid security, a bid shall be
deemed not extended.
Extension of
deadline for
submission

60.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may extend the deadline
for submission of bids through a written notice which shall be issued
promptly to all those that obtained the bidding document.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), where a bid was invited through an
open tender, the procuring and disposing entity shall also publish the
notice of extension in the media in which the invitation to bid was
published.
(3) The extension of the deadline for submission of bids mentioned
in subsection (1), may be allowed on the following grounds—
(a) clarification or modification of the bidding documents;
(b) late issuance of minutes of a pre-bid conference or a site
visit; or
(c) force majeure.

Opening of
bids

61.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall open bids at the time
and place indicated in the bidding document, and the time of opening
of the bids shall coincide with the deadline for submission of bids.
(2) Bidders or their respective representatives may attend the
opening of bids at which the names and addresses of the bidders
submitting bids, and their prices, shall be read out and recorded.
(3) The attendance of the opening of bids under subsection (2) by
a bidder or a respective representative of the bidder may be virtual.

Evaluation of
bids

62.__(1) The procurement and disposing entity shall determine the
evaluation method of the procurement and disposal proceedings after
considering–
(a) the type and value of the goods, services, or work to be
procured or the assets to be disposed of; and
(b) the complexity of the procurement proceedings or disposal
requirements, in accordance with this Act and as may be prescribed
in regulations.
(2) The procuring and disposing entity shall carry out a bid
evaluation, in accordance with the criteria set in the bidding
document, and shall commence the evaluation within seven days
from the bid opening date.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity may evaluate bids containing
non-material deviations, with the deviations being quantified in the
manner indicated in the bidding document.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

41

(4) Subject to section 69, a procuring and disposing entity shall not
negotiate with bidders as to the substance or prices of their bids.
(5) A procuring and disposing entity may only seek clarifications
of bids, and may not solicit or accept changes in the substance or
prices of bids.
(6) In the evaluation of bids, a procuring and disposing entity may
apply a margin of price preference in favour of domestic or regional
bidders in accordance with the regulations, provided that such
application has been disclosed in the bidding documents.
(7) A successful bid shall__
(a) in the case of a procurement, be the lowest evaluated bid,
subject to any margin of preference provided in this Act; and
(b) in the case of disposal of assets, be the highest evaluated bid.
(8) A procurement and disposing entity shall, for purposes of
determining the lowest evaluated bid under subsection (7) (a) have
regard to the relevant feasibility study and indicative market price,
as the case maybe.
(9) A procurement and disposing entity shall ensure that non-price
criteria is, to the extent practicable, objective and quantifiable, and
given a relative weight in the evaluation procedure or be expressed
in monetary terms, wherever practicable.
(10) A successful bidder shall, prior to the entry into force of the
procurement or disposal contract and, if so required, provide security
for the performance of the contract.
(11) A procuring and disposing entity shall ensure that sixty per
cent of the value of procurements carried out in a financial year under
national competitive bidding is reserved for Malawian micro, small
and medium sized enterprises and forty per cent is reserved for other
bidders.
63.__(1) If upon evaluation, a procuring and disposing entity
considers a bid to be unrealistically low, the procuring and disposing
entity shall, before rejecting the bid, request in writing, details of the
constituent elements of the bid which it considers relevant and shall
verify, after due hearing of the party, those constituent elements
taking account of the explanations received
(2) The procuring and disposing entity shall take into consideration
explanations relating to__
(a) the economics of the manufacturing process, of the services
provided or of the construction methods;

Unrealistically low bids

42

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(b) the technical solutions chosen and the exceptionally
favourable conditions available to the bidder for the supply of the
goods or services, or the execution of the work; and
(c) the originality of the goods, services or works proposed by
the bidder.
Processing of
unrealistically
high bids

64.__(1) A person undertaking procurement proceedings shall not
process, or abet the processing of, an unrealistically high bid.
(2) A person undertaking disposal proceedings of public assets
shall not, process, or abet the processing of an unrealistically high
bid.
(3) A person who contravenes this section, commits an offence,
and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of K5,000,000, and to
imprisonment for two years.

Use of
standard
bidding
documents

65.__(1) The Authority shall issue standard bidding documents
which shall be used by procuring and disposing entities for use in
procurement and disposal proceedings.
(2) The following sections of the standard bidding documents shall
form part of the subsequent procurement contract—
(a) Price Schedule;
(b) Priced Bill Quantities or Schedule of Works;
(c) General and Special Conditions of Contract; and
(d) Technical Specifications, Terms of Reference and Contract
Forms.

Rejection of
bids and
cancellation
of
procurement
and disposal
proceedingse
ntity

66.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may reject all bids at any
time prior to the acceptance of the bids, without incurring any liability
to the bidders.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity may cancel the procurement
or disposal proceedings without incurring any liability to the bidders,
at any time before completion of the procurement and disposal
proceedings , if the__
(a) need for procurement or disposal has ceased to exist;
(b) bidding documents require substantial modification; and
(c) procuring and disposing entity establishes that proceeding
with the procurement and disposal may not realize the initial
objective.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

43

(3) The cancellation of procurement or disposal proceedings after
opening of bids shall be subject to approval by the Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee, and may be authorized if__
(a) the object of the procurement or disposal is no longer
required;
(b) there is need to substantially modify the bidding documents;
(c) there is evidence of collusion among bidders in setting bid
prices;
(d) there is no substantially responsive bid;
(e) all the substantial responsive bids exceed the budget; and
(f) it is deemed by the procuring and disposing entity that
proceeding with the process would compromise achievement of
the intended objectives.
67.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall not open a bid
received after the deadline for the submission of bids, and the bid
shall be collected by the bidder that submitted it within five days at
its own cost.

Bids received
after deadline
for
submission

(2) A procuring and disposing entity shall note in the record of the
procurement and disposal proceedings, the date and time of arrival
of a late bid.
68.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall not accept a bid—
(a) if the bidder__
(i) is not qualified;
(ii) is debarred or suspended;
(iii) submits an alternative bid contrary to the provisions of
the bidding document; or
(iv) does not accept a correction of an arithmetical error made
in accordance with regulations;
(b) if the bid is not substantially responsive to the requirements
of the bidding documents;
(c) for which a bid security or bid securing declaration was not
provided, if such form of security was required by the bidding
documents; or
(d) in the circumstances referred to in section 78.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “bid securing declaration”
means an undertaking by a bidder, committing to be suspended for a
period of time from being qualified to participate in any public
procurement activity in the event the bidder violates any of the
conditions stated therein.

Unqualified
bids

44
Negotiations

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

69.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity may—
(a) in the case of a procurement proceeding, invite the lowest
evaluated bidder; and
(b) in the case of a disposal proceeding, invite the highest
evaluated bidder,
for negotiations aimed at finalizing the award of the contract.
(2) The Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee shall
appoint a negotiation team, and shall include the user department and
procurement and disposal unit as members.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity shall not negotiate with a
bidder as to the substance or price of the bid; except in the case of
single sourcing or where the price of the bid has not been taken into
account in the evaluation methodology.
(4) If__
(a) in the case of a procurement proceeding, the negotiations
with the lowest evaluated bidder; or
(b) in the case of a disposal proceeding, the negotiations with
the highest evaluated bidder,
fail to result in an acceptable contract, the procuring and disposing
entity may, by letter addressed to that bidder, terminate the
negotiations and invite the next ranked bidder for negotiations, or
cancel the procurement or disposal proceeding.

Intention to
award a
contract

Use of
information
and
communication
technologies

70.__(1) The procuring and disposing entity shall publish the notice
of intention to award contract in the Gazette, in at least one widely
circulated national newspaper, on the website of the Authority and
on the website of the procuring and disposing entity for a period of
fourteen days for any procurement or disposal contract above a
threshold set by the Authority, before signing the contract
(2) For purposes of subsection (1) the Authority shall, by notice
published in the Gazette, set the threshold .
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Authority may, on an
application by the procuring and disposing entity, and stating reasons
therefor, authorize a shorter period of publication of the intention to
award contract, as the Authority deems fit.
71.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall use the electronic
government procurement and disposal system or any other electronic
procurement and disposal system that the Authority may prescribe.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

45

(2) Subject to subsection (1), the electronic government
procurement and disposal system or any other electronic procurement
and disposal system that the Minister may prescribe shall provide
for__
(a) annual procurement and disposal plan preparation planning;
(b) publication of bidding documents, notices and invitations to
bid;
(c) publication of amendment in bidding documents and
explanations for those changes, if any;
(d) submission and opening of bids;
(e) bid evaluation;
(f) requests for information on the bid process;
(g) publication of procurement contracts subject to the
confidentiality provisions under section 34;
(h) publication of notices of amendments to procurement or
disposal contracts subject to the confidentiality provisions under
section 34;
(i) reporting on the status of the procurement or disposal
contracts; and
(j) dissemination of laws, regulations and directives on public
procurement and disposal of public assets.
(3) The Authority shall prescribe the manner of procurement or
disposal proceedings relating to the matters under subsection (2).
(4) The Authority shall ensure that the electronic government
procurement and disposal system or any other electronic procurement
is safe and secure in compliance with the Electronic Transactions and
Cyber Security Act.
72.__(l) Subject to a No Objection issued by the Authority in
accordance with this Act, a procuring and disposing entity shall
prepare and sign the contract with the successful bidder.

Cap. 74:02
Procurement
contract

(2) All contracts shall be prepared in the manner prescribed in the
appropriate standard bidding document issued by the Authority or
any other document approved by the Authority.
73.__(1) Unless otherwise provided in the procurement contract,
the contract price stated in a signed procurement contract is
considered to be fixed, and shall not be modified in response to
changes in economic or commercial conditions, unless inflation
changes significantly.
(2) All amendments to a signed procurement contract shall—

Amendment
of a signed
procurement
contract

46

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(a) include a maximum extension period of twelve months;
(b) be approved by the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee;
(c) if the amendment relates to price adjustment which is above
the price adjustment permitted by the procurement contract, be
approved by the Authority; and
(d) be effected, as prescribed in regulations.
(3) All amendments to a signed procurement contract which
include an extension period of more than twelve months shall be
submitted to the Authority for no objection.
Contract
management

74.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall be responsible for
the administration of procurement contracts into which they enter,
and to that end, they shall establish procedures for contract
administration and provide the necessary material and human
resources for their implementation.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity may appoint a contract
manager, depending on the nature and complexity of the contract,
whose main responsibility shall be to ensure that the supplier,
contractor or consultant performs the contract in accordance with the
terms and conditions specified therein.
(3) A procuring and disposing entity may terminate a procurement
or disposal contract on the grounds and terms stipulated in the
procurement or disposal contract.
(4) Notwithstanding subsection 3, a procuring and disposing entity
may terminate a procurement contract for convenience if it is
determined to be in the public interest and subject to payment for
works satisfactorily completed or services satisfactorily performed
prior to the effective date of termination and for reimbursable
expenses actually incurred or for any goods specially manufactured
under the procurement contract and reasonable termination costs, but
excluding lost profit.
PART IX__SUPPLIERS AND BIDDERS

Eligibility
criteria for
bidders

75.__(1) A bidder shall, in order to be eligible to be awarded a
procurement contract__
(a) be registered with the Registrar of Companies or the
Registrar of Business Names, and if applicable, with any
professional regulatory, or other entity as may be prescribed;
(b) be tax compliant;

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

47

(c) disclose beneficial ownership in accordance with the
Companies Act; and
(d) not be debarred from participating in procurement
proceedings under this Act.
(2) In addition to the eligibility criteria contained in subsection (1),
a procuring and disposing entity shall not enter into a contract with a
bidder if the__
(a) bidder is bankrupt or insolvent;
(b) bidder is in receivership;
(c) the bidder is being wound up;
(d) the affairs of the bidder are being administered by a court or
a judicial officer;
(e) business activity of the bidder is suspended; or
(f) the bidder is the subject of legal proceedings .
(3) Subject to the right of bidders to protect their intellectual
property or trade secrets, a procuring and disposing entity may require
bidders participating in procurement proceedings to provide such
appropriate documentary evidence or other information as it may
consider necessary to satisfy itself that bidders are qualified in
accordance with the criteria referred to in subsection (1).
(4) In handling the information provided under subsection (1), the
procuring and disposing entity shall take into consideration the
legitimate interests of bidders as regards the protection of their
technical or trade secrets.
(5) A procuring and disposing entity shall indicate in bidding
documents, the type of documentation, if any, to be provided by
bidders to attest to their conformity with the qualification
requirements set forth in the bidding documents.
76.__(1) In order to enter into a procurement contract, a bidder shall
qualify by meeting the criteria the procuring and disposing entity
considers appropriate.
(2) The criteria referred to in subsection (1) may concern—
(a) the legal capacity;
(b) professional and technical qualifications;
(c) financial resources and condition;
(d) equipment and other physical facilities;
(e) personnel and managerial capability; and

Qualifications
of bidders

48

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(f) past performance, including history of legal disputes,
conviction of a bidder, or its directors or officers, of any criminal
offence related to their professional conduct or the making of false
statements or misrepresentations as to its qualifications to enter
into a procurement contract within a period of three years
preceding the commencement of the procurement proceedings.
Suppliers data
bases or lists

77.__(1) The Authority shall organize and maintain a centralized
system, in the form of a database or list, to provide centralized
information on potential suppliers of goods, works or services.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity may organize and maintain
its own system or database of potential suppliers, and shall submit
such list to the Authority for approval prior to its use.
(3) The Authority shall open database or list of potential suppliers,
shall register a qualified supplier into the database or list within
Thirty days from receipt of request, at a prescribed fee.
(4) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Authority, prescribe
fees and procedures for compilation and maintenance of the
databases and the lists.

Conduct of
bidders and
suppliers

78.__(1)A bidder and a supplier shall not engage in or abet__
(a) corrupt practices, such as the offering of improper
inducements;
(b) fraudulent practices, including misrepresentation of facts in
order to influence a procurement process or the execution of a
contract; and
(c) collusion among bidders, prior to or after bid submission,
designed to establish bid prices at artificial, and non-competitive
levels, to deprive the procuring and disposing entity of the benefits
of free and open competition.
(2) Any information concerning the occurrence or attempt of
malpractices in subsection (1) shall be reported immediately to the
head of the procuring and disposing entity, to the Authority and to
the relevant law-enforcement authorities.

Debarment of
suppliers and
contractors

79.__(1) The Authority may exclude a supplier, contractor,
consultant or any bidder from participation in public procurement for
any misconduct prescribed in this Act in accordance with procedures
set out in regulations.
(2) A supplier or a bidder may be excluded from participation in
public procurement and disposal proceedings on the following
grounds__

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

(a) supplying false information in the process of submitting a
bid or prequalification application;
(b) collusion between the bidders or a bidder and a public
official concerning the formulation of any bidding documents or
any part of bidding documents;
(c) interference by the supplier or bidder with the participation
of competing bidders;
(d) misconduct relating to the submission of bids, including
corruption, price fixing, a pattern of under-pricing bids, breach of
confidentiality, misconduct relating to execution of procurement
contracts, or any other misconduct relating to the responsibilities
of the bidder or supplier;
(e) conviction for an offence relating to obtaining or attempting
to obtain a procurement contract;
(f) conviction for an offence related to dishonesty or fraud in a
professional activity;
(g) submitting a bid which contains inaccurate or inadequate
information with a view to misleading a procuring and disposing
entity or the Authority regarding the eligibility or responsiveness
of its bid;
(h) refusing, where no bid security is required, to accept an
award made to it, within the bid validity period, and to enter into
a contract with a procuring and disposing entity, except in a
situation of force majeure;
(i) repeated failure, in the performance of one or more contracts,
to comply with the terms and conditions, or the specifications, of
the contract, as the case may be;
(j) committing a material breach of contract; or
(k) without the prior written approval of the procuring and
disposing entity, unlawfully assigning or subcontracting any of its
obligations under a contract.
(3) A bidder or supplier who has been found liable for the
misconduct after the hearing shall be excluded from public
procurement for a period commensurate with the gravity of the
misconduct as prescribed in the regulations.
(4) The owners and the directors of a bidder or supplier that has
been found liable for the misconduct under subsection (3) shall be
excluded from public procurement and disposal of public assets for
a period commensurate with the gravity of the misconduct as
prescribed in the regulations.

49

50

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(5) A bidder or supplier aggrieved by a decision of the Authority
may make an application to High Court for judicial review.
PART X__PROCUREMENT INTEGRITY
Conduct
of public
officials

80.__(1) A public official involved in requisitioning, planning,
preparing and conducting procurement proceedings, disposal
processes, and implementation of procurement and disposal contracts,
shall__
(a) discharge his or her duties impartially so as to ensure fair and
competitive access to procurement opportunities by suppliers;
(b) always act in the public interest, and in accordance with the
objectives and procedures set out in this Act;
(c) at all times, avoid conflicts of interest, and the appearance of
impropriety in carrying out his or her duties and conducting
themselves, and shall not interfere in the work of the Internal
Procurement and Disposal Committee;
(d) not commit or abet any corrupt or fraudulent practice, including
the solicitation or acceptance of improper inducements;
(e) not interfere with or exert undue influence on any person to
effect a procurement or disposal activity or decision;
(f) keep confidential any information that comes into his or her
possession relating to procurement proceedings or disposal processes,
including bidders' proprietary information; and
(g) not, for a period of two years after leaving the public service,
get involved in the implementation of a procurement contract on
behalf of a private organization with his or her previous employer.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity shall disclose to any party
with an interest in the procurement or, disposal process, during and
after the procurement or disposal proceedings, all the information
which may materially affect the implementation of the procurement
or disposal process as prescribed in the regulations.
(3) A procuring entity carrying out procurement for works or
consultancy services in the construction industry shall disclose all
material project information and shall comply with the principles of
transparency and accountability at all stages of the project life cycle
inclusive of pre-contract and post-contract process as prescribed in
the regulations.
(4) For purposes of this section, “undue influence” means pressure
or influence exerted on a public official to make a decision in favour
of the person exerting such pressure or influence or anyone connected
to him or her.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

81. The Authority may promulgate codes of conduct to guide the
behaviour of public officials and bidders and suppliers conduct for
involved in public procurement or disposal processes.

51
Codes of
conduct for
public
officials and
suppliers

PART XI__ADMINSTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEAL
82.__(1) A bidder that claims to have suffered, or that may suffer
loss or injury due to breach of a duty imposed on the procuring and
disposing entity, or the Authority may seek a review in accordance
with this Part.

Right to
review

(2) The following shall not constitute grounds for the review under
subsection (1)__
(a) the choice of a selection procedure in request for proposals
for services, in accordance with the regulations;
(b) a decision by the procuring and disposing entity under
section 66 to reject all bids, proposals, offers or quotations; and
(c) a refusal by the procuring and disposing entity to respond to
an expression of interest in requests for proposals for consultancy
services under section 43.
83.__(1) A bidder shall submit an application for a review under to
section 82__
(a) during the period of intention to award a contract; or
(b) within fourteen days of the bidder submitting the application
and becoming aware of the circumstances giving rise to the
application or when that bidder should have become aware of those
circumstances, whichever is earlier.
(2) An application in subsection (1) shall be made, in writing, to
the Controlling Officer .
(3) A bidder who is not satisfied with a response from the
Controlling Officer may make an application in writing to the
Authority.
(4) An application made to the Authority under subsection (3) shall
be accompanied by the prescribed fees.
(5) The Authority or a Controlling Officer shall not entertain the
application for review unless__
(a) it was submitted within the period of the publication of an
intention to award a contract for procurement or disposal
proceedings whose estimated values are above a set threshold; or
(b) for all procurement and disposal processes below the set
threshold, it was submitted within fourteen days of the bidder

Review
procedures

52

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

submitting the application becoming aware of the circumstances
rise to the application, or when the bidder should have become
aware of those circumstances, whichever is earlier.
(6) Where an application for review is made to the Authority in
accordance with subsection (3), the Authority shall convene threemember technical committee from the technical officers which shall
hear the application for review brought to the Authority, and make
recommendations to the Authority.
(7) Upon receipt of the application for review under this section,
the procurement or disposal proceedings shall be suspended for ten
days.
(8) The suspension period in subsection (7) may be extended to
thirty days in cases where the dispute has not been resolved.
(9) A Controlling Officer, as the case may be, shall render a
decision on the application within fourteen days of the submission of
such application.
(10) Unless the application is dismissed, the Authority may, in
respect of an application under this section—
(a) prohibit the procuring and disposing entity from acting or
deciding unlawfully or from following an unlawful procedure;
(b) annul, in whole or in part, an unlawful act or decision of the
procuring and disposing entity, other than any decision bringing
the procurement contract into force;
(c) revise an unlawful decision by the procuring and disposing
entity or substituting its own decision for such decision, other than
any decision bringing the procurement contract into force;
(d) compel the procuring and disposing entity to pay the
successful applicant its costs of preparing and submitting a bid and
application for the review;
(e) compel applicant to pay the costs of the review; and
(f) report the public official who committed the misconduct to
relevant oversight bodies for disciplinary action and prosecution.
(11) Any decision of the Authority shall be subject to review by
the High Court.
PART XII__INVENTORY CONTROL, ASSET AND STORES MANAGEMENT
AND DISTRIBUTION
Stores
management

84.__(1) Subject to the Public Finance Management Act, a
procuring and disposing entity shall use a stores management and
control system to assist the procuring and disposing entity meet the
objectives of sound supply chain management.

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

(2) A procuring and disposing entity shall establish a Stores or
Supplies Unit, which shall be staffed by qualified supply chain
professionals registered under the Malawi Institute of Procurement
and Supply Act, and assign to such a Unit authority to conduct stores
and supplies activities in accordance with this Act.

53

Cap 30:15

(3) A person who manages stores shall not be involved in
procurement within the procuring and disposing entity.
85.__(1) A procuring and disposing entity shall__
(a) ensure that goods procured are received;
(b) not use the goods until they are recorded in the inventory;
and
(c) use the goods for the intended purpose.

Management
of procured
goods

(2) The head of the stores unit shall, submit the following reports
to the Controlling Officer__
(a) quarterly inventory management report;
(b) quarterly stores inspection report;
(c) quarterly stock taking reports;
(d) annual stock taking report; and
(e) any other reports as directed and requested
(3) A Controlling Officer shall__
(a) submit the reports referred to in subsection (2) to the
Authority;
(b) ensure the inspection of the stores at least quarterly in each
calendar year; and
(c) conduct quarterly and annual inventory analysis and stock
taking.
(4) A procuring and disposing entity shall__
(a) put measures in place to ensure that stores do not deteriorate
from any preventable cause; and
(b) avoid overstocking of any particular item.
(5) A procured item assigned for use by an office holder shall be
requisitioned from stores and issued by a stores officer of a procuring
and disposing entity.
PART VIII__COMPLIANCE, MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT
86.__(1) The Authority may, by notice in writing, require a
procuring and disposing entity, or any other person the Authority

Supply of
information
by procuring
and disposal
entity

54

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

considers has relevant information, to furnish it with information that
it may require for the performance of its functions and exercise of its
powers in terms of this Act.
(2) A procuring and disposing entity or person with information
sought by the Authority shall furnish the Authority with the
information within ten working days of receipt of the notice for a
request of information under subsection (1).
(3) A procuring and disposing entity or person who fails to furnish
the information required by the Authority under subsection (2),
commits an offence.
Investigations
and
inspections

87.__(1) The Authority may, where the Authority has reasonable
grounds to believe, either on its own motion or at the request, in
writing, by any person, that there is a contravention of this Act, direct,
in writing, an inspector to investigate the breach and report the
findings of the investigation to the Authority.
(2) The Authority may, at any reasonable time, inspect the records
and accounts of a procuring and disposing entity, supplier or bidder
relating to the procurement and disposal proceedings or contract and
the procuring and disposing entity and supplier or bidder shall cooperate with, and assist the inspector.
(3) Where the Authority is satisfied that an investigation should be
conducted under subsection (1), the Authority may conduct audits__
(a) during the tender preparation;
(b) in the course of execution of an awarded contract; and
(c) of the performance of a contract in respect of any
procurement as may be required.
(4) The Authority shall, on the commencement of an investigation
under subsection (1)__
(a) suspend the procurement proceedings until the conclusion
of the investigation; and
(b) issue a written decision, within ten working days of the
commencement of the investigation.

Appointment
of inspectors

88.__(1) The Authority shall appoint suitably qualified persons as
inspectors for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this Act.
(2) The Authority shall provide an inspector with a certificate of
appointment, in the prescribed form, which shall be prima facie
evidence of the inspector’s appointment.
(3) An inspector shall, in performing a function under this Act—

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

55

(a) be in possession of the certificate of appointment; and
(b) show the certificate of appointment to a person who requests
to see it or who is subject to an investigation under this Act.
89.__(1) An inspector may, with a warrant, enter premises where
information, documents or articles which may be relevant to an
investigation may be kept and__
(a) search the premises;
(b) search a person on the premises if there are reasonable
grounds for believing that the person has personal possession of a
document or article that has a bearing on the investigation, except
that a person shall only be searched by a person of the same sex;
(c) examine a document or article found on the premises that
has a bearing on the investigation;
(d) take extracts from or make copies of any book or document
found on the premises that has bearing on the investigation;
(e) use a computer system on the premises, or require the
assistance of a person on the premises to use that computer system,
to—
(i) search any data contained in, or available from, the
computer system;
(ii) reproduce any record from the data; or
(iii) obtain information from the computer for examination
and copying; or
(f) attach and, if necessary, remove from the premises, for
examination and safeguarding, any document or article that
appears to have a bearing on the investigation.

Powers of
inspectors

(2) An inspector who removes a document or article from any
premises in accordance with subsection (1) shall—
(a) issue a receipt for the document or article to the owner, or
person in charge or in control, of the premises; and
(b) return the document or article as soon as practicable after
achieving the purpose for which it was removed.
90. An inspector shall, after completing an investigation or
inspection under section 87, submit a written report relating to the
investigation or inspection to the Authority within a period the
Authority may specify.

Report of
investigation
and
inspection

91.__(1) The Authority may, after considering the report of an
Inspector made under section 90 and on being satisfied that there is
a breach of this Act__

Powers of the
Authority in
investigation
and
inspection

56

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

(a) direct the procuring and disposing entity to take actions that
are necessary to rectify the contravention;
(b) terminate the procurement and disposal proceedings;
(c) prepare and submit a summary of the inspector’s findings
and recommendations to the relevant authorities for action; or
(d) require the procuring and disposing entity to transfer
procuring or disposal responsibilities of the subject procurement
or disposalto another procuring and disposing entity.
(2) The Authority shall, before making an order under subsection
(1), give the procuring and disposing entity and any other person
whose legal rights the Authority believes may be adversely affected
by the order, an opportunity to be heard.
PART IV__MISCELLANEOUS
Oath of
secrecy

92. Every__
(a) member of the Authority;
(b) member of a committee of the Authority;
(c) member of staff of the Authority;
(d) members of the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee, procurement and disposal unit, ad-hoc evaluation
team, and board of survey; or
(e) person invited to attend a meeting of the Authority pursuant
to section 9(8),
shall, upon assumption of his or her office or before attending the
first meeting, take an oath of secrecy in the form set out in the
Schedule.

Disclosure of
interest

93.__(1) A member of the Authority or a committee of the Authority
and a person invited to attend a meeting of the Authority or any of its
committees who has a direct or indirect interest in any matter before
the Authority or any of its committees, shall disclose the interest as
soon as is practicable before or soon after the commencement of the
meeting and shall not take part in any consideration or discussion of,
or vote on, any question on such matter at that meeting or any
subsequent meeting.
(2) A disclosure of interest made under this subsection (1) shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Authority, or a
committee as the case may be.
(3) Where a person fails to disclose interest in accordance with
subsection (1) and the Authority or committee of the Authority makes

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

57

a decision which benefits that person, a close relative, or a
professional or business partner of that person, the decision shall, to
the extent that it benefits that person, the close relative, professional
or business partner, be null and void.
(4) A member of the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee, ad-hoc evaluation team, board of survey, and
procurement and disposal unit who has a direct or indirect interest in
any matter before the procuring and disposal unit, shall disclose the
interest as soon as is practicable before or soon after the
commencement of the meeting and shall not take part in any
consideration or discussion of, or vote on, any question on such
matter at that meeting or any subsequent meeting.
(5) A disclosure of interest made under subsection 4 shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Internal Procurement
and Disposal Committee, ad-hoc evaluation team, board of survey,
procurement and disposal unit as the case may be.
(6) Where a person fails to disclose interest in accordance with
subsection (5) and the Internal Procurement and Disposal Committee,
ad-hoc evaluation team, board of survey, and the procurement and
disposal unit makes a decision which benefits that person, a close
relative, or a professional or business partner of that person, the
decision shall, to the extent that it benefits that person, the close
relative, professional or business partner, be null and void
94.__(1) Every member of the Authority or committee of the
Authority, shall maintain, during or twenty-four months after the
member’s relationship with the Authority, or the committee the
confidentiality of any matter relating to this Act which comes to that
person's knowledge in the course of duty.

Postengagement
restrictions

(2) Every member of the Internal Procurement and Disposal
Committee, procurement and disposal unit, ad-hoc evaluation team,
and board of survey, shall maintain, during or twenty-four months
after the member’s relationship with the procuring and disposing
entity, the confidentiality of any matter relating to this Act which
comes to that person's knowledge in the course of duty.
(3) A person who, without lawful excuse, contravenes subsection
(1) commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine
of K1,000,000, and to imprisonment for twelve months.
95. A member, and every member of staff or employee, of the
Authority shall not, in his or her personal capacity, be liable in civil
or criminal proceedings in respect of any act or omission done in
good faith in the performance of duties or functions under this Act.

Protection
from liability

58
Offences

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

No. 7

96.__(1) A person who contravenes the provisions of this Act
commits an offence.
(2) A person who commits an offence under this Act for which no
penalty has not been prescribed, shall, on conviction, be liable to—
(a) in the case of an individual, a fine of K1,000,000, to
imprisonment for twelve months; and
(b) in the case of a body corporate, a fine of K5,000,000.

Regulations

97.__(1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the
Authority, make regulations for implementing the provisions of this
Act and prescribing all matters which are necessary or contingent to
be prescribed for better carrying out or giving effect to the provisions
of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
regulations may make provision for__
(a) registration of suppliers;
(b) procedures on framework agreement;
(c) preferences, reservations and set-asides;
(d) administrative reviews;
(e) debarment of suppliers and bidders;
(f) community participation;
(g) procedures for disposal of public assets;
(h) procurement of national security services;
(i) design context;
(j) guidelines for prequalification;
(k) procurement thresholds;
(l) electronic Government procurement;
(m) electronic Government market;
(n) sustainable procurement;
(o) procedures for procurement of works, consultancy services,
medicines, medical supplies and information and communication
technology equipment and services;
(p) micro, small and medium enterprises;
(q) levy, fees and charges payable under the Act;
(r) force account; and
(s) anything required to be prescribed under this Act

Cap. 1:01

(3) Notwithstanding section 21 (e) of the General Interpretation
Act, the regulations made under this Act may create offences in

No. 7

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

59

respect of any contravention to the regulations, and may for any such
contravention impose a fine of up to K2,000,000, and imprisonment
for twelve months.
98.__(1) Subject to section 99, the Public Procurement and Disposal
of Assets Act, is hereby repealed.

Repeal and
savings
Cap. 37:03

(2) All subsidiary legislation made under the Public Procurement
and Disposal of Assets Act, repealed by subsection (1), and in force
immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall so far as it
is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force
as if made under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), every prior review,
investigation, inquiry, administrative review, debarment proceedings,
procurement contract, post procurement review, order, direction or
appointment issued, given or made pursuant to the Public
Procurement and Disposal of Assets Act, repealed by subsection (1),
shall be valid until otherwise cancelled, revoked or varied under the
provisions of this Act.
99.__(1) The person holding the office of Director General of the
Authority immediately before the commencement of this Act shall
assume the office of the Director General in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.

Transitional
provisions

(2) Every person holding office as an employee of the Public
Procurement and Disposal of Assets Authority immediately before
the commencement of this Act shall continue to hold such office in
the Authority on no less favourable terms and conditions of
employment than those under the employment with Public
Procurement and Disposal of Assets Act, repealed by subsection (1).
(3) Every undertaking by the Public Procurement and Disposal of
Assets Authority under the Public Procurement and Disposal of
Assets Act, repealed by subsection (1), shall continue to have effect
or be undertaken by the Authority in accordance with the provisions
of this Act.
SCHEDULE

(s.92)

OATH OF SECRECY
I,............................................................, being a member of the Board/member
of a committee of the Board /member of staff of the Board / having been invited
to attend a meeting of the Board or committee of the Board, do hereby
swear/affirm that I will freely without fear or favour, affection, or ill-will,
discharge the functions of a member/member of staff /invitee of the Board and

60

Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets

that I will not directly, or indirectly reveal any matter related to such functions to
any unauthorized person or otherwise than in the course of duty. So, help me
God/Allah.
SWORN at ..............................................this .... day of............................,20....
Deponent
Before me: ………………………………………
Commissioner for Oaths
Passed in Parliament this seventeeth day of December, two thousand and
twenty-four.
FIONA KALEMBA
Clerk of Parliament

